ips to Write a Good Paragraph
Whether you're writing a small paragraph or a big paragraph, the basic laws of structure should apply to both. While the framework for fiction is less strict than for nonfiction, the material or tale you create must logically or sequentially tie to the next paragraph. These aspects aid in the coherency of your body paragraphs, linking them together to form a unified whole around a topic or to establish a narrative arc.


1. Think Before You Write

Thinking before writing helps establish a structure and understand what you are going to answer in the paragraph. How can you be going to answer and what points should be provided to support your hypothesis? What facts and quotes can support your idea. 


2. Open Your Notebook

Write the answers to the above questions in a manner that includes all the important points. Just write in pointers to remember the gist of the matter.


3. Choose the Main Idea

Out of all the information you have found, you will have to decide the main idea of the paragraph which you would like to operate. 


4. Use a Dictionary and Thesaurus

Use a dictionary and thesaurus to add additional words to express your ideas.


5. Make Your Topic Sentence's First Sentence. 

The opening line of your first paragraph sets the tone for what your audience will learn as they continue reading. Even in fiction, a paragraph's introduction either creates or extends an idea or scenario from the previous paragraph. Every successful paragraph starts with a central topic that the rest of the paragraph aims to support, regardless of what style or genre you're writing for.


6. The Intermediate Sentences Should be Used to Provide Support.

Follow-up information to your main sentence or prior paragraph is included in these sentences. These phrases are where you persuade your reader to believe or imagine what you believe, and offer them all they need to see your point of view.


7. Make Use of Transitional Words.

Transition words help unite disparate paragraphs to generate a unified theme. Readers will be able to trace your ideas and comprehend how they relate to one another if you use phrases like "in addition" or "moreover," which will make for a smoother, more enjoyable reading experience. This is especially important for essayists and bloggers, who frequently share a single concept with their audience at a time.


Conclusion 
This segment has to wrap all of your arguments and factors.  

Must restate the primary arguments in a simplified way.  

Make sure that the reader is left with something to think about, specifically if it's far from an argumentative essay continually don't forget to permit time to rewrite the first proofread your essay before turning it on.
